Okay, so now armed with these few spells
and our good friend MDN always, so
this time, it's less of a scavenger hunt
and more of a task list, a to do list.
We're gonna go through and we're gonna
actually manipulate this page and
make it individualized.
So far we've been all
looking at the same page.
Now we're going to customize our page for
ourselves.
So, if you're sitting here in the room,
you're going to first of all change
the player names to player
one can be yourself and
player two can be your
closest neighbor next to you.
And if you don't remember their name,
ask them.
If you're following along at home,
you can make player one yourself and
then player two whoever is closest to you
in the room you're in, or in your house,
or a friend you just talked to on
the phone, or whoever you want.
Then as another fun add on,
swap the symbols.
So right now player one has an x and
player two has an o, swap them,
so player one gets the o.
And then change the subtitle of the page,
right now it says, a game you know,
change it to, a game you know and love.
This is you mission should
you choose to accept it.
So let's take five minutes and
try to do that.
We're back, with a different webpage
than we had before, perhaps.
How did this go?
How are we feeling?
Are we starting to feel the immense cosmic
powers of our JavaScript spells?
Little bit, at least for
this one web page?
Okay, so
how did you all decide to do this?
For number one, changing the player names.
We saw one example of
changing first player name.
So in mine, now it says Sofia and friends,
can somebody else change it to their name?
How about Jason,
you look ready to change something.
>> I think I cheated.
I went right into the document itself and
changed all of the values.
>> All right, well,
this is a totally legit thing.
Since our dev tools let
us edit HTML directly,
one way we can change what's on the page
is by going into our inspector tab,
drilling into whatever we want and
editing it as we see fit, right?
So that is perhaps cheating because
we're not using JavaScript,
but it gets the job done, so that's great.
And now I have deleted a space
the all important space.
Okay, did anybody manage to use
JavaScript to do the same thing?
>> I changed the game name using
query selector h two.text content but
then when I tried to do
the same thing with p1-name,
it says,
do not set properties of no setting.
>> Errors, errors, JavaScript always
is gonna complain when we're doing
something so
let's find out what happened here.
So you typed document.?
>> QuerySelector.
>> Yep, p1-name.
>> p1-name.
>> Yep, dot-
>> And?
>> Xcontent.
>> Right now, we are noticing that
we are missing something because
right now if we stop here and
we press enter, we see null.
And so now if I tried .textContent,
JavaScript is like, no,
I don't know what happened but
something is wrong.
So we're gonna talk about this later but
there is something wrong
here because we wanted an HTML
element to come back from this.
And instead we got something called null,
which we're gonna talk about later about,
what is null?
Is it related to undefined?
What are they, do they do things for
us, who knows?
So, There is some small
change we need to make.
We figured out what it is OJ?
>> It's a hashtag.
>> Why does it care?
>> If we put the hash there,
now we get back the span
element that we were expecting.
Does anybody know why
do we need that hash?
Can anybody recap or
does anybody have a guess as to why it
matters whether that hash is there?
Yes, Paul.
>> I think that without
the hash it's just looking for
an element that named, and
that's not an element, it's an ID.
>> Right, so in our HTML,
we're looking for
this span right here with
the name inside of it.
This has the id p1-name.
And so it is the id attribute, and
this is a kind of a special one,
that we're looking for in this element.
Now when we use querySelector,
we said we're using CSS selectors or
the type of selectors we use in CSS,
to pull out elements from the page.
And the querySelector p1-name, JavaScript
didn't complain, it didn't give an error.
This is a valid thing I could pass in.
But it's not going to return anything
because querySelector p1-name is,
as Paul pointed out, looking for
an element that looks like this,
has some kind of tag name p1-name.
Which even that minus is unexpected,
that's not really what we're looking for.
We could, for example,
try the name of this, sorry,
the type of this element, so
the tag name itself would be a span.
But we said that querySelector
singular returned to the first
element that matches.
So in this case,
that's gonna give us the p1-symbol span
because it occurs earlier in the document.
And so that's gonna pick out that x
which is not exactly what we want.
So instead what we can use in this case,
because there's
an id on the element that we
want on this particular span,
we can kind of jump straight to
that element using the id selector,
which happens to be in CSS,
it happens to be the # and
then the text of the id or
the content of the id.
So in this case #id_value and then in CSS,
we would be using it kind of like at
the beginning of some styling rules.
In JavaScript with querySelector,
we can use it to pick out the same element
that CSS would pick out in a style sheet.
So in this case,
that's why these have different values.
So once we've got our querySelector
p1-name, then in order to change the text,
OJ, you wanna walk me through
the rest of your solution there?
>> QuerySelector
#p1-name.textcontent equals JSON.
Text Content equals, well,
I mean I guess in this case it would be
whatever you want, so we can make it OJ.
And now the page has changed, cool?
Cool, cool, cool.
Awesome, all right.
And we could do the same thing for
the other player.
Just really quickly,
how would I change the player O?
Yeah, Paul,
>> This is an excellent use of the up
arrow.
>> [LAUGH] Indeed it is.
So I'm gonna press up arrow and fun fact,
even if I clear, I can still use
my up arrow to go back in history.
So in this case,
what should I change this to?
>> Just change the p1 to p2.
>> So we can press, make this p2-name and
then the text content can be,
why don't we make it you?
Like this?
>> Yep.
>> Beautiful, so
now we have different players, excellent.
Okay, now we already maybe got a little
bit of a preview about the symbols here.
How did we approach number two swapping
the player symbols, the X and the O?
So we know that the O will come first and
the X will come second.
Can anybody walk me through this?
So first we have to pick out
the element containing each symbol.
So let's try to go for the x first, right?
Which we picked out before.
If we remember, we saw that it is inside
of another span which has an id on it, so
that's handy.
So we can pick this out
using the id p1 symbol.
So can anybody just for variety's sake,
walk me through another option I
have other than using querySelector?
Anybody remember?
Yeah.
>> In chat they're using
document.getElementById.
>> Excellent, so getElementById.
And then the ID for the x,
let's say, is p1 symbol.
And now I can already see my browser
is being so helpful in the dev tools.
It's already showing me,
highlighting what element,
it's showing span hash p1 symbol,
meaning the span with ID p1 symbol.
So we wanna pick out the symbol x, and
we're gonna try to do it in a way that
doesn't use querySelector just to stretch
our JavaScript muscles a little bit.
So one of the suggestions made from
the chat is to do document getElementById,
and then the Id for
the x there would be p1 symbol.
And as you can see, the browser is already
helpfully highlighting what element
I'm picking out here,
it's showing me there is a span hash p1
symbol meaning the span with id p1 symbol.
And so
how do I now change this now to an o?
Maybe the chat had already
solved it in the messages there.
So we do document.get element
by ID quotes P1 symbol and
then-
>> Text content,
I'm just tabbing to auto complete and
then,
Space, we want to change this, right?
So the spell that we used to
do that was the equal sign and
then whatever we want the content to be.
In this case, we want to swap it to the
other symbol, which is a letter O capital.
So now we have two player O's.
Once I run [LAUGH] this we have player O,
player O, that's not helpful.
Let's swap the other one which, again,
we can use our little shortcut up arrow
to find the last command we entered.
I'm just gonna go ahead and change this
to p2-symbol to pick out the second line.
And then this one similarly,
we'll replace the O with an X and
now they're in the other order.
>> Is there any fancy reverse
functions that you could do,
like dynamically reassign
them in an order or no?
>> Is there a fancy function we could do?
The answer is always yes,
there's always something we could do.
We could write our own function,
let's say,
that has some kind of representation of
the two symbols and then reverses them.
Once we figure out JavaScript, we can
make it do pretty much anything we want.
Not always, there's an asterisk on that,
but pretty much anything we want.
But in this case, we're just trying
to get these spells, kind of
these different ways of interacting
with the DOM really under our belts so
that we feel confident working
with the page and messing with it.
So that's why we're just kind of
focusing on these getElementById, and
querySelector, and textContent,
and things like that.
The last thing we wanted to do was
change the subtitle of the page.
Right now the subtitle page says,
a game you know and
we want it to say,
a game you know and love.
So there's a couple of different ways I
could do this, what options do I have?
And can anybody think of a way to do this
using a spell that we haven't used yet
in this exercise that
we saw briefly earlier?
Where we add on to
existing text content or
in other words, append, To text content.
Did anyone use append in their
solution to this exercise?
I'm seeing some nodding.
Sounds like maybe in the chats
there were some uses of append.
>> Yeah, there's three different
ways that people are adding.
>> Great, so let's see,
what have we got here?
Some examples or some options.
And again, there's lots of options.
>> So one person's using querySelector,
header,
space h2, and then append in quotes,
space and space love.
>> So we can use querySelector,
as we said,
to pick out elements using CSS selectors.
And so in this case,
if we want to pick out
the h2 element that is
inside of the header,
we can use header space h2.
This basically is sort of like
getting more and more specific.
It's saying in the header element,
something that's an h2 element.
And again, I can read all about this
in MDN if I wanna read up on different
selectors and how that syntax works, but
this is a totally valid way to do it.
And I like it because we're discovering
a new way to derail into it.
And then what did we have Mark, sorry.
>> .append, in quotes.
>> .append, and then in quotes-
>> Space and space love.
Look at that.
We've done it.
And now if we drill into our HTML,
we'll see if we go into this h2 element,
we have, a game you know and love.
So additional text has been appended
into the content of this element.
Question.
>> This is probably beyond the scope of
what you wanna talk about right now, but
I did the append but
I misspelled what I appended,
is there any way to immediately roll back
the previous command that you just did?
>> Interesting,
is there a quick way to basically, no,
I didn't wanna say a game you know and
love because I actually hate tic tac toe.
I wanna say a game you know and hate.
Is there a quick way to edit that?
I'm not familiar with a undo here.
Ctrl+Z isn't gonna work unfortunately.
[LAUGH] But what we can do, we do know
how to completely replace the text.
That may be a great question, how do I
completely replace this subtitle and
change it to, a game you know and
hate just to add a little negativity into
our classroom, why wouldn't we want that?
Any guesses?
>> Yeah, I had to do that.
So you just instead doing .append,
you use the same old text content equals.
>> Right, so now we can just say,
I totally messed up,
I wanna change this entirely.
Or maybe I wanna put it back to what
it was before, a game you know?
And maybe I just wanna
temper it a little bit.
I only like it, don't love it.
[LAUGH] So yeah,
this is how we would have to do that.
There's not a kind of a quick
reverse operation kind of thing.
These changes that we've made to the page,
so now for example, the title is my page.
The player O comes first,
the subtitle is different.
The names are different,
all of this stuff.
These changes, They take place.
They're things that I have carried
out inside of this browser tab
in the JavaScript console.
So what do you think is gonna happen when,
let's say, I refresh this page?
Am I gonna get the new
content that we have here, or
the old content that it had
originally if I refresh?
Guesses?
Sorry.
>> Old content.
>> Old content is the guess.
Let us check.
Indeed, it has all gone away.
All of my work lost.
[LAUGH] It's very sad.
Because all of these changes,
these are happening inside of
this particular document object
that I have here in my page,
and that changes every
time I load the page.
So, these changes are not what
we would call persistent,
because if I reload the page,
it's gonna be different.
If somebody else loads the same
page from the same URL,
they're gonna see something different.
If let's say I changed
the document title to New title,
if I now even go into a separate tab and
load the exact same URL,
We'll notice it has the old title, even
in just a different tab, same browser.
That's because each time
the browser loads the page,
it creates a new model of
what is in this document.
And that is going to be generated from
whatever the source code of that page
is that it finds when it goes
to the URL for this page.
We're gonna look at
editing a file itself so
that we can make sure that
the changes that we're making and
the things that we're doing are not
just happening in this ephemeral state
of the one time that we loaded this
page in our browser in this one tab.
So that we can actually create
a page that we can later, maybe,
post on our website so everybody gets
to see our beautiful JavaScript work.
Or something that we can
reload in our own browser and
see the things that we
wanted to be different.
So that is a great point that Paul
had made earlier in the break and
just wanted to raise with you all.